Add WebHID/WebUSB information. (#7712)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/webhid/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"

> title: "WebHID on ChromeOS"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "WebHID in extension service workers"
```

> seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions: WebHID on ChromeOS"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions: WebHID in extension service workers"
```

date: 2023-11-01
description: A Human Interface Device (HID), which takes input from or provides output to humans, is available in extensions.
---

A Human Interface Device (HID) takes input from or provides output to humans. It also refers to the HID protocol, a standard for bi-directional communication between a host and a device that is designed to simplify the installation procedure.

> This page describes aspects of the API that are particular to extensions. Refer to MDN for complete details of the [WebHID](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebHID_API).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes aspects of the API that are particular to extensions. Refer to MDN for complete details of the [WebHID API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebHID_API).
```

## Availability in extensions

> ChromeOS 117 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome 117 or later.
```

## Permissions

> No manifest file permissions are required; however WebHID triggers the browser's user permission flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No manifest file permissions are required; however to use WebHID, the [`requestDevice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HID/requestDevice) method needs to be called from "regular" pages (any of popup, background, tabs) to request access to a device, for which a user gesture is required. Only then the extension service worker can use WebHID to receive device events.
```

Reviewer 2: Did we decide against this?

Reviewer 3: +1

This API may be used in any extension component. Although this API cannot be used in web service workers, most of its methods and properties can be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

## Chrome extension differences

Although WebHID is available to extension service workers, [`WebHID.requestDevice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HID/requestDevice), which returns a promise that resolves with an [HIDDevice](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HIDDevice) instance, cannot be called in an extension service worker. To get around this, call `requestDevice()` from an extension page other than the extension service worker and pass the reference to the extension service worker.

The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. (If the permission has not already been granted, calling `requestDevice()` triggers it.)

```javascript
someButton.addEventListener('click', async () => {
  const device = await navigator.usb.requestDevice({
    filters: [{ vendorId: 1241, productId: 41042 }]
  });
  console.log('Device access granted!', device);

>   chrome.runtime.sendMessage(device);

Reviewer 4: I'd recommend showing both page and service worker code to make it clear.

```js
// popup.js
myButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {
  const device = await navigator.usb.requestDevice({
    filters: [{ vendorId: 0x1234, productId: 0x5678 }],
  });
  chrome.runtime.sendMessage("newDevice");
});

```
  
```js
// serviceworker.js
chrome.runtime.onMessage.addListener(async (message) => {
  if (newMessage === "newDevice") {
    const devices = await navigator.hid.getDevices();
    for (const device of devices) {
      // open device connection.
      await this.device.open();
    }
  }
});
```

Reviewer: Ah, interesting. I was under the impression the extension service worker needed to be post'ed the `device`, but of course this can't work, as the device isn't serializable now that I think about it. So _very_ good point to show both. 

Careful, @beaufortfrancois: your code above mixes HID and USB, though.

Reviewer: Ah, the `const device` seems superfluous then.

Reviewer 4: Thanks @tomayac. I've edited code snippet

Reviewer: What about ` const device = await navigator.hid.requestDevice`? You don't need to store the reference in a variable, no?

Reviewer 4: This variable is not required indeed.

Author: I just pushed an update. PTAL

---

A Human Interface Device (HID) takes input from or provides output to humans. It also refers to the HID protocol, a standard for bi-directional communication between a host and a device that is designed to simplify the installation procedure.

This page describes aspects of the API that are particular to extensions. Refer to MDN for complete details of the [WebHID API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebHID_API).

You can find a [sample app for WebHID](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-extensions-samples/tree/main/functional-samples/sample.co2meter) in our samples repo.

## Availability in extensions

Chrome 117 or later.

## Permissions

No manifest file permissions are required; however WebHID triggers the browser's user permission flow.

## Manifest

No manifest keys are needed for this API.

## Supporting contexts

This API may be used in any extension component. Although this API cannot be used in web service workers, most of its methods and properties can be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

## Chrome extension differences

> Although WebHID is available to extension service workers, [`WebHID.requestDevice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HID/requestDevice), which returns a promise that resolves with an [HIDDevice](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HIDDevice) instance, cannot be called in an extension service worker. To get around this, call `requestDevice()` from an extension page other than the extension service worker and pass the reference to the extension service worker.

Reviewer 4: You don't pass the reference anymore.

> The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. (If the permission has not already been granted, calling `requestDevice()` triggers it.) When the device is acquired it sends a message to the service worker, which can then retrieve the device using `getDevices()`.

Reviewer 4: The browser prompt will always* be shown as the user needs to pick a device. See https://developer.chrome.com/articles/hid/#open

Author: Fixed.

> The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. (If the permission has not already been granted, calling `requestDevice()` triggers it.) When the device is acquired it sends a message to the service worker, which can then retrieve the device using `getDevices()`.

Reviewer 4: It would be nice to link to [getDevices](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HID/getDevices)

Author: Done.

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "WebHID in extensions"
seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions: WebHID"
date: 2023-11-02
description: The WebHID API, which exposes Human Interface Device (HID) compatible devices to the web, is available in extensions.

---

A Human Interface Device (HID) takes input from or provides output to humans. It also refers to the HID protocol, a standard for bi-directional communication between a host and a device that is designed to simplify the installation procedure.

This page describes aspects of the API that are particular to extensions. Refer to MDN for complete details of the [WebHID API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebHID_API).

You can find a [sample app for WebHID](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-extensions-samples/tree/main/functional-samples/sample.co2meter) in our samples repo.

## Availability in extensions

Chrome 117 or later.

## Permissions

No manifest file permissions are required; however WebHID triggers the browser's user permission flow.

## Manifest

No manifest keys are needed for this API.

## Supporting contexts

> This API may be used in any context. The `WebHID.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

Reviewer 3: This could be more clear since later it says you can use it on the service worker via messaging. 
Could we rephrase it like it cannot be used directly in a sw, but there is a workaround in the next section?

> This API may be used in any context. The `WebHID.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

Author: ```suggestion
This API may be used in almost any context; The `WebHID.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.
```

> This API may be used in any extension component. Although this API cannot be used in web service workers, most of its methods and properties can be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.

Reviewer 2: I think the wording before was confusing because it said you could use the API anywhere, and then immediately said it wasn't supported in service workers.

```suggestion
This API may be used in any context. The `WebHID.requestDevice()` method cannot be used in extension service workers. See the next section for details.
```

## Chrome extension differences

Although WebHID is available to extension service workers, [`WebHID.requestDevice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HID/requestDevice), which returns a promise that resolves with an [HIDDevice](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HIDDevice) instance, cannot be called in an extension service worker. To get around this, call `requestDevice()` from an extension page other than the extension service worker and send a message to the extension service worker.

The following code follows a typical pattern by calling `requestDevice()` as part of a permissions flow requiring a user gesture. When the device is acquired it sends a message to the service worker, which can then retrieve the device using [`getDevices()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HID/getDevices).

{% Label %}popup.js:{% endLabel %}

```javascript
myButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {
  await navigator.hid.requestDevice({
    filters: [{ vendorId: 0x1234, productId: 0x5678 }],
  });
  chrome.runtime.sendMessage("newDevice");
});
```

> {% Label %}serviceworker.js{% endLabel %}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}
```
